JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

1

AutoLFD: A Three-Stage Framework for Microservice Fine-grained
Auto-scaling in Edge Server Cluster
Kai Peng , Zhanhao Zhang , Shangwen Zhuang, Jiacheng Wang, Menglan Hu ,
Tianyue Zheng, and Zehui Xiong

Abstract—The advancement of edge computing and lightweight
containerization technologies has spurred the adoption of the
microservices architecture. However, microservice scheduling in
edge environments faces significant challenges. The first challenge
lies in the tight coupling between microservice deployment and
request routing, which is often overlooked in existing research.
This neglect will lead to the failure to obtain the system optimal
solution. Secondly, user requests in edge environments are highly
unstable and difficult to predict. Existing static or passive scaling
strategies cannot cope with this dynamic nature, resulting in
the increase of user request latency and the decrease of system
resource utilization. Finally, scheduling large-scale microservices
usually incurs high computational overhead, and existing solutions that rely on redeployment are less cost-effective. At the same
time, such methods are also unable to support fast, real-time
adjustment, further limiting their practicality in real-world edge
environments. Therefore, this paper proposes a new three-stage
AutoLFD algorithm to address these challenges. This algorithm
combines Lyapunov optimization, first-fit diminishing (FFD),
and deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to perform fine-grained
auto-scaling of microservices, minimizing user request latency
while keeping system costs within a controllable range. Through
detailed model analysis and strategy design, it jointly optimizes
microservice deployment and request routing to ensure that the
system obtains the optimal solution. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that AutoLFD significantly outperforms stateof-the-art algorithms, achieving substantial reductions in latency
(by 9.86%) and cost (by 8.02%).
Index Terms—Microservice auto-scaling, Edge computing,
Lyapunov optimization, Deep reinforcement learning.

I. I NTRODUCTION

W

ITH the rapid proliferation of the Internet of Things
(IoT), and latency-sensitive AI applications [1], traditional cloud-centric architectures are increasingly inadequate
to support the stringent demands of emerging services [2]. To
bridge this gap, edge computing has emerged as a promising
paradigm that brings computation and intelligence closer to
Manuscript received April 19, 2021; revised August 16, 2021.
This work is supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China under Grant 62171189, and in part by the Key Research and
Development Program of Hubei Province, China under Grants 2024BAA011,
2024BAB016, and 2024BAB031. (Corresponding author: Menglan Hu.)
Kai Peng, Zhanhao Zhang, Shangwen Zhuang, Jiacheng Wang, and
Menglan Hu are with the Hubei Key Laboratory of Internet of Intelligence, School of Electronic Information and Communications, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China (e-mail:
pkhust@hust.edu.cn; d202481226@hust.edu.cn; z15078382658@163.com;
w651376825@gmail.com; humenglan@hust.edu.cn;)
Tianyue Zheng is with the School of Computer Science and Engineering,
Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China (e-mail:
zhengty@sustech.edu.cn)
Zehui Xiong is with the School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, Queen’s University Belfast (e-mail: z.xiong@qub.ac.uk)

data sources [3], [4]. Edge server clusters are widely deployed in urban or industrial environments to provide highperformance and low-latency support for delay-sensitive tasks
[5], [6]. Due to the limited resources of the edge environment,
the traditional monolithic service architecture is no longer applicable. The microservice architecture has gained significant
traction in edge computing scenarios due to its modular and
distributed nature [7].
By decomposing monolithic applications into loosely coupled, independently deployable services, microservices promote scalability, fault isolation, and fine-grained resource management across heterogeneous edge nodes [8], [9]. However,
despite the enormous resource management and scheduling advantages brought about by microservice architecture, orchestrating and scaling microservices in the cluster environment
of edge servers remains a difficult challenge [10]. The highly
dynamic and resource-constrained edge environment, coupled with complex service dependencies and fluctuating user
demands, imposes significant barriers to achieving efficient,
low-latency, and energy-aware microservice management [11],
[12]. These challenges call for adaptive and intelligent orchestration mechanisms to ensure service-level objectives (SLOs)
under strict latency and resource constraints. However, there
are still some limitations in the existing studies [13], [14].
First, due to the limited resources of edge servers, a complete service is hard to execute solely on a single server.
Consequently, a service chain often needs to be decomposed
into multiple microservices, which are then instantiated across
different servers. This results in a complex optimization
problem involving both microservice deployment and request
routing. Moreover, there exists a strong coupling between deployment and routing, the two processes significantly influence
each other. However, most existing studies treat microservice
deployment and request routing as independent optimization
tasks [15]–[17], neglecting their mutual interdependencies.
Optimizing only microservice deployment or request routing
often leads to optimal results in one dimension but creates bottlenecks or inefficiencies in the other dimension. Ultimately,
preventing the global optimal solution of system performance.
Second, user requests in edge environments are dynamic
and difficult to predict [18]. Designing effective strategies
to adapt to such fluctuating demands under constrained edge
resources is a major challenge. Many existing studies optimize
microservice deployment and routing based on the assumption
that the request flow remains static [16], [19]. These static
strategies cannot accommodate dynamic traffic patterns, often
resulting in increased request failures and higher service

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

latency under long-term traffic fluctuations. Some studies
have considered the dynamic nature of request flows [20].
However, most adopt reactive adjustments that are made only
after the traffic variation occurs. Such reactive strategies are
inherently delayed and can be particularly problematic in
handling chained microservice requests, where the blockage
of a single microservice may lead to system-wide failure.
Finally, balancing operational cost with service quality is
paramount for practical edge service deployment. Service
providers must ensure quality of service (QoS) while maintaining economic viability through efficient resource utilization.
Given the scarcity of edge resources, it is critical to reduce
the number of microservice instances to avoid unnecessary
consumption. Some studies propose re-deployment strategies
to address dynamic request patterns [21], [22]. However,
frequently shutting down and restarting a large number of microservice containers results in significant energy consumption
and high operational costs. Additionally, re-deployment often
incur long scaling times, making the system susceptible to
instability under rapid traffic changes.
Aiming at the above research gaps, this paper aims to
design a better auto-scaling method. However, The following
challenges will be faced in the design process. First, due to the
coupling relationship between microservice deployment and
request routing, it is necessary to reasonably model the system,
decouple them and implement joint optimization to ensure the
optimal solution. Secondly, user requests in edge environments
are complex and difficult to predict. At the same time, it is
important to ensure the stability of the system. Therefore, how
to accurately predict the request arrival rate of the next time
slot and make adjustments in time is a great challenge. Finally,
due to the limited cooling and power resources in the edge
scenario and the strict control of overhead required by most
private server clusters, it is also a challenge to guarantee low
latency levels and QoS at a limited cost.
To this end, in order to address the above challenges and fill
the research gap. This paper proposes an new three-stage algorithm called AutoLFD. This algorithm combines Lyapunov
optimization, first-fit diminishing (FFD), and deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to perform fine-grained auto-scaling of
microservices, minimizing user request latency while keeping
system costs within a controllable range. Through detailed
model analysis and strategy design, it jointly optimizes microservice deployment and request routing to ensure that the
system obtains the optimal solution. In summary, the main
contributions of this paper are as follows:
• This paper introduces the Jcakson queuing theory and
models the process of user requests waiting for microservice instance processing as a queuing system [23].
The entire microservice system is then modeled using
an open Jackson queuing network, integrating queuing
latency, communication latency, and processing latency
to establish a comprehensive analytical model for system
request-response latency.
• This paper proposes a three-stage algorithm, AutoLFD,
to solve this NP-hard problem. First, based on Lyapunov
optimization theory [24], we transform the long-term
stability problem of microservice deployment cost and

2

request latency into an optimization problem within a
single time slot. Then, based on the FFD method [25], the
MFFD algorithm was designed for the initial deployment
of the microservice system, which was regarded as a
static deployment process. Finally, based on the results
of Lyapunov optimization and DRL, MDRL algorithm
was designed for auto-scaling of microservices.
The organization of this paper is as follows: In Section I,
we introduce the background and contributions of this study.
Section II presents the related work. In Section III, we model
the network and formulate the problem. Section IV provides
a detailed description of our proposed algorithm. Section V
comprehensively presents the experimental results. Finally,
Section VI concludes the paper.
II. R ELATED W ORK
A. Service Deployment
Research on microservice deployment focuses on efficiently placing loosely coupled but interdependent services
on appropriate nodes to ensure system stability and operational efficiency. Wang et al. [26] studied resource allocation
in cloud-edge collaborative environments under SLOs constraints, proposing a linear programming-based approximation
algorithm to determine the optimal number of instances per
server. Yang et al. [27] modeled the service function chain
(SFC) deployment problem as a mixed integer nonlinear
programming (MINLP) formulation and applied reinforcement
learning for latency-sensitive scheduling. Li et al. [28] developed MOTAS, a scheduling framework that considers both
microservice dependencies and cluster relationships, using a
recursive graph mapping heuristic for cloud deployment. To
enhance scalability, Liu et al. [29] proposed a multiobjective
evolutionary algorithm for heterogeneous server clusters. Lv
et al. [30] introduced GRLD, a graph reinforcement learningbased framework that reduces overhead while satisfying QoS
constraints. However, these studies often ignore the impact
of deployment strategies on request routing, and thus fail to
achieve good results.
B. Request Routing
Microservices are often deployed across distributed environments with complex dependencies, leading to multiple
routing options with varying latencies. The key challenge lies
in minimizing average response time while balancing loads.
Bhattacharya et al. [31] proposed BLOC, which balances
load by analyzing system resource usage. Bachar et al. [32]
designed MCOSS, adjusting load balancing weights using
multi-cluster demand information. Wang et al. [33] formulated
routing as a many-to-one matching game and proposed DDADQ, a dependency-aware algorithm with dynamic quotas.
Zhao et al. [34] introduced a redundancy placement framework
using sample average approximation to enhance responsiveness. However, most approaches ignoring its dependency on
deployment decisions, which limits their effectiveness in highconcurrency scenarios.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

C. Joint Service Deployment and Request Routing
Deployment and routing are tightly interdependent placement decisions affect routing feasibility, while routing impacts
instance loads. To address this, recent work explores joint
optimization. Ren et al. [35] proposed JSORD, a mixed integer linear programming-based orchestration and scheduling
mechanism. Mao et al. [36] presented a traffic-aware framework combining dynamic segmentation and nearest-neighbor
routing. Hu et al. [37] designed a two-stage heuristic with
greedy deployment and request-matching partition mapping.
Peng et al. [38] proposed a 2-approximation algorithm using
rounding for deployment and routing in mobile edge environments. Nevertheless, most methods rely on simplified queueing
models like M/M/1 and assume static loads, limiting their
adaptability to real-world, dynamic conditions.
D. Auto-scaling under Dynamic Load
To maintain performance under fluctuating workloads, microservice systems require timely resource scaling or migration. Some studies focus on instance migration. Zeng et al. [39]
proposed ADVMC, a VM consolidation framework using deep
reinforcement learning and host overload evaluation to reduce
energy consumption. Liu et al. [40] presented E2MS, a migration strategy for dynamic manufacturing environments. However, these works often neglect broader scheduling constraints.
Others target elastic scaling. Kardani et al. [41] introduced
ADRL, which integrates anomaly detection and reinforcement
learning for adaptive scaling. Rossi et al. [42] developed a
scaling framework using dynamic thresholds, while Cheng et
al. [43] proposed ProScale, leveraging workload prediction for
cloud-edge collaboration. Still, most methods treat scaling and
migration separately, lacking unified strategies for dynamic
load balancing.

3

TABLE I
C OMMON SYMBOLS AND VARIABLES
Notation
S
M
R
T0
Tmax
CRs
M Rs
CRm
M Rm
µm
T que
T pro
T pro
TG
c(·)
C̃
Nm
Ns
Nmchange
Nschange
L(·)
Q(·)
∆(·)
D(·)

Description
Collection of data center servers
Collection of microservices
Collection of user request streams
Fixed communication latency between servers
Request response time limit
CPU resources owned by server s
Memory resources owned by server s
CPU resources required to deploy the microservice m
Memory resources required to deploy the microservice m
Request processing rate of microservice m instances
Request queuing latency
Request processing latency
Request communication latency
Average request latency for a microservice graph
The total cost function
Average cost estimates given by the service provider
The number of microservices
The number of servers
The number of changed microservice instances
The number of changed servers
Lyapunov function
Lyapunov virtual queue
Lyapunov drift function
The optimal elastic resource scheduling scheme

Fig. 1. Illustration of the microservice workflow and request splitting.

III. S YSTEM M ODEL
In this section, we will mathematically model the problem,
and the commonly used notations are shown in Table I.
A. Network model
This paper focuses on edge server clusters, whose hardware
infrastructure consists of a series of multi-core servers. The
communication latency between two cores on the same server
is assumed to be negligible. Meanwhile, it is assumed that different servers within the edge server cluster are capable of mutual communication, and the network bandwidth is sufficiently
large. As a result, the communication latency between different
servers is regarded as identical and is denoted by T0 . The
network is modeled as G = (S, L), where S represents the set
of all servers in the network, denoted as s1 , s2 , ..., sk , ..., s|S| ,
and L denotes the set of links connecting these servers. The
parameter CRs denotes the CPU resources available on server
s, while M Rs represents the available memory resources on
server s. Due to different microservice instances need different
processing times, we define µm as the processing capability
of a CPU core when executing microservice instance m.
When a user request reaches the system, it is processed
sequentially by a set of specific microservices. In this paper,

we define M = {m1 , m2 , ..., mj , ..., m|M | } as the set of all
microservices. The left side of Fig. 1 illustrates a typical online
shopping scenario, in which multiple microservices invoke one
another, forming a complex microservice invocation graph.
This graph can be further decomposed into a set of microservice invocation chains of varying lengths, as shown on the
right side of Fig.1. In our model, user requests are processed
through such invocation chains, where each request follows a
complete sequence of microservices.
Each microservice mj may have multiple container images
that can be deployed on a single server or distributed across
multiple servers. In this study, multiple identical instances of
the same microservice can be deployed on the same server to
improve request processing capability. Let CRmj and M Rmj
denote the CPU and memory resources required to deploy
microservice mj , respectively, and let Nsi (mj ) denote the
number of instances of microservice mj deployed on server
si . The following resource constraints must be satisfied:
∀si ∈ S,

X
1≤j≤|M |

Nsi (mj ) × CRmj ≤ CRsi

(1)

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

4

extra communication latency. Additionally, queue lengths vary
across servers, resulting in different queuing latencies depending on the routing decision. We adopt a probabilistic routing
strategy to determine both the initial server and subsequent hop
selections for each microservice invocation. The probability
that server sk is selected to process microservice mj is defined
as:
Ns (mj )
(3)
Pmj (sk ) = P k
s∈S Ns (mj )
where Pmj (sk ) denotes the probability that server sk processes
a request for microservice mj , and Nsk (mj ) represents the
number of instances of mj deployed on sk . This probability
satisfies the following constraint:
X
Pmj (sk ) = 1
(4)
m∈M

Fig. 2. Illustration of microservice instance deployment and request routing.

X

∀si ∈ S,

Nsi (mj ) × M Rmj ≤ M Rsi

(2)

1≤j≤|M |

B. Request Routing
Internet applications commonly offer various services, such
as payment, downloading, and searching. When multiple users
request the same service, similar requests continuously arrive
in the system, forming what is referred to as a request stream
Ri . Upon reaching the edge server, the request flow is routed
to an instance of the corresponding entry microservice for
processing. If the instance is idle, it processes the request
immediately; otherwise, the request is placed into the instance’s waiting queue. Once the current microservice instance
completes the request, it triggers the invocation of the next
microservice in the chain. This process continues until the
entire request flow is completed.
This paper assumes that the arrival of each request flow
Ri follows a Poisson distribution with an arrival rate λRi .
Each request flow is associated with a maximum allowable
latency, denoted by Tmax , such that a request is considered
successful if the time elapsed from initiation to response is
less than Tmax ; otherwise, it is considered failed. Based on
the above assumptions, this paper models the process using
an open Jackson queuing network.
Fig. 2 presents an illustrative example. The figure shows
that five types of microservices are deployed across an edge
server cluster. Three request flows R1 , R2 , and R3 are
shown, with the following microservice invocation sequences:
R1 = {m4 , m1 , m5 , m2 }, R2 = {m1 , m3 , m4 , m2 }, R3 =
{m5 , m4 , m1 , m3 }. When a request flow R1 enters the system,
it is routed to a server hosting an instance of m4 , such as s1
or s5 . Assuming it is directed to s1 and successfully processed
by m4 , the next invocation targets microservice m1 . Since m1
is available on both s1 and s3 , the request may be routed to
either. Considering that the internal communication latency
of the server is negligible, remaining within s1 incurs no
additional transmission latency, while routing to s3 introduces

Since each request stream follows a Poisson process, and
due to the additive property of Poisson processes, the aggregate
request flow at a server also follows a Poisson distribution.
When multiple instances of the same microservice are deployed on a server, the system can be modeled as an M/M/C
queuing system, where C denotes the total number of deployed
instances of the microservice. The service intensity ρm of this
queuing system is defined as:
ρm =

λm
,
cm µm

∀m ∈ M

(5)

where µm denotes the service rate of a single instance
of microservice m. For system stability, it is required that
ρm < 1; otherwise, the request arrival rate exceeds the processing capacity, leading to queuing congestion and increased
request failures. In a stable system, the average number of
queued requests for microservice m is denoted by Lm and is
calculated as:


1
λm
ρm
Lm =
P 0 , ∀m ∈ M (6)
cm ! cm µm (1 − ρm )2 m
0
where Pm
is the steady-state probability that no requests are
in the system, computed as:
"c −1 


cm #−1
m
X
1
λm
1
1
λm
0
Pm =
+
i! cm µm
cm ! 1 − ρm cm µm
i=0
(7)
Due to the complexity of microservice interactions, a given
request type may traverse multiple routing paths, each incurring different end-to-end latencies. Therefore, this paper
adopts a weighted averaging approach to estimate the response
latency for each request flow based on all possible routing
paths. Let Mr denote the microservice invocation sequence
corresponding to request flow Ri , and let the set of all feasible
routing paths for Ri be denoted as GRi = {g1 , g2 , ..., g|GRi | }.
Each routing path gk has an associated probability P (gk )
representing the likelihood that Ri follows this path. This
probability is computed as:
Y
P (gk ) =
Pmj (sk )
(8)
mj ∈Mr

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

and satisfies the normalization condition:
X
P (gk ) = 1

5

(9)

gk ∈GRi

In the following, we conduct a detailed analysis of request
response time. The total response latency of a request flow
consists of three components: queuing latency, processing latency, and communication latency. These latency components
are analyzed separately along a specific routing path pak .
Queuing Latency: Time the request spends waiting for the
microservice instance to be processed. We denote the average
queuing latency of microservice m as tque
m , which is calculated
as:


1
λm
ρm
Lm
que
P0
(10)
=
tm =
λm
λm cm ! cm µm (1 − ρm )2 m
Thus, the average queuing latency for a request flow Ri along
a specific routing path is:
X
T que =
tque
(11)
m
m∈Mr

Processing Latency: The time taken by the microservice
instance m to process the corresponding microservice request.
We denote the processing latency of microservice m as tpro
m ,
which is calculated as:
1
(12)
tpro
m =
µm
For the same request flow, the sequence of microservices
passed through any routing path is the same, and the processing power of the server core is also the same. Thus, the
processing latency of the request flow Ri is independent of
the routing path, and the average processing latency of any
routing path is:
X
T pro =
tpro
(13)
m

Finally, a weighted coefficient ϕi is defined according to the
importance of each request flow Ri , and after the weighted
average, the average request-response latency of the whole
microservice graph can be obtained:
X
ϕi Ti
(18)
TG =
Ri

C. Initial System Optimization Goal
Auto-scaling of microservices presents a long-term challenge, where the objective is to ensure cost-efficient system
operation while maintaining high QoS for users over time. The
total cost considered in this work comprises two components.
The first component is the running cost, denoted by c1 (t),
which is directly related to the number of deployed microservice instances Nm (t) and the number of active servers Ns (t).
It is defined as:
c1 (t) = α · Nm (t) + β · Ns (t)

where α denotes the resource cost of operating a single
microservice instance, and β represents the resource cost of
operating a single server.
The second component corresponds to the cost of resource
scheduling, primarily incurred by the deployment or removal
of microservice instances and the activation or deactivation of
servers. This cost is proportional to the changes in the number
of microservices Nmc (t) and servers Nsc (t), and is defined as:
c2 (t) = γ · Nmc (t) + ρ · Nsc (t)

Communication Latency: The time it takes for the request
to be transferred inside the microservice system. We use tcom
m
to denote the communication latency between microservice m
and its predecessor microservice on a routing path, which is
computed as:
tcom
= f lag(m) × T0
(14)
m
where f lag(m) is a binary variable that indicates whether the
subsequent microservice of m is deployed on a different server.
If the microservice deployed on the same server, f lag(m) = 0;
otherwise, f lag(m) = 1. Thus, the total transmission latency
for a request flow Ri along a routing path is:
X
T com =
tcom
(15)
m
m∈Mr

(20)

where γ denotes the cost of deploying or removing a single
microservice instance, and ρ represents the overhead associated with activating or deactivating a server. Consequently, the
total cost at the time slot t is expressed as:
c(t) = ω1 · c1 (t) + ω2 · c2 (t)

m∈Mr

(19)

(21)

where ω1 and ω2 are weighting coefficients used to balance
the trade-off between running cost and scheduling cost.
Let C̃ denote the long-term time averaged cost budget
specified by the service provider. The total cost must satisfy
the following constraint:
T −1

1 X
E[c(t)] ≤ C̃
T →∞ T
t=0
lim

(22)

Based on the above definitions, the elastic resource scheduling problem under dynamic system load can be formulated as
optimization problem P1:
min TG (t)

(23)

Based on the above definitions, the total response latency
Ti,k for a request flow Ri along a specific routing path gk is:

subject to: Constraints given in Eqs. (1), (2), and (22).

Ti,k = T que + T pro + T com

IV. A LGORITHM

(16)

By using the probability of each path as the weighting coefficient, the average request response latency Ti of the request
flow in all routing paths can be obtained.
X
Ti =
P (gk ) × Ti,k
(17)
gk ∈GRi

In this section, we elaborate on the proposed algorithm. The
system timeline is discretized into fixed length time slots of 5
minutes each, yielding a total of 288 time slots over a 24-hour
period. The arrival rate of user requests changes dynamically
in different time slots. Specifically, our algorithm AutoLFD
consists of the following three phases.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

6

A. Problem Transformation via Lyapunov Optimization
Given that problem P1 is formulated as a time-averaged
optimization problem, Lyapunov optimization theory offers a
principled approach to transform it into a tractable per-slot
optimization problem by introducing a virtual queue. Specifically, we define a virtual queue Q(t) to monitor the cumulative
deviation of the actual cost from the budget constraint over
time, thereby capturing the backlog of cost violations at the
end of time slot t. The virtual queue is updated in each time
slot according to the following rule:
n
o
Q(t + 1) = max Q(t) + c(t) − C̃, 0
(24)
where the initial value is set as Q(0) = 0. According to
Lyapunov optimization theory, if the virtual queue satisfies
the condition of mean rate stability, the following holds:
E[Q(T )]
=0
T →∞
T
lim

(25)

Lemma 1: If the virtual queue Q(t) satisfies the stability
given in Eq. (25), then the time-average constraint of the total
cost given in Eq. (22) is also satisfied.
Proof. From Eq. (24), we have:

Q(T ) − Q(0) = Q(T ) ≥

T
−1
X

c(t) −

t=0

T
−1
X

C̃

(27)

t=0

Dividing both sides by T and rearranging terms gives:
T −1
T −1
Q(T )
1 X
1 X
c(t) ≤
+
C̃
T t=0
T
T t=0

(28)

Taking expectations on both sides and letting T → ∞, we
obtain:
lim

1

E[c(t)] ≤ lim

T →∞

t=0

Proof. From Eqs. (31), and (32), we have:

1 
∆(t) = E Q(t + 1)2 − Q(t)2 | Q(t)
(34)
2
From Eq. (24), we obtain:
n
h
io2
Q(t + 1)2 = max Q(t) + c(t) − C̃, 0

2


≤ Q(t)2 + c(t) − C̃ + 2Q(t) c(t) − C̃
(35)
Substituting Eq. (35) into Eq. (34) yields:


2


1 
∆(t) ≤ E c(t) − C̃ + 2Q(t) c(t) − C̃ | Q(t)
2
i
h
i
1 h
e 2 | Q(t) + E Q(t)(c(t) − C)
e | Q(t)
= E (c(t) − C)
2
(36)

(26)

Subtracting Q(t) from both sides and summing over all time
slots t ∈ {0, 1, . . . , T − 1} yields:

T →∞ T

where δ is a constant.

From Eqs. (19), (20), and (21), we have:

Q(t + 1) ≥ Q(t) + c(t) − C̃

T
−1
X

Lemma 2: There exists a certain upper bound on the
Lyapunov drift in Eq. (32) as follows:
h
i
∆(t) ≤ δ + E Q(t)(c(t) − C̃) | Q(t)
(33)

E[Q(T )]
+ C̃
T

T −1

1 X
E[c(t)] ≤ C̃
T →∞ T
t=0

(30)

By Lemma 1, the constraint given in Eq. (22) in problem P1
can be transformed into a constraint given in Eq. (25). To solve
this problem, we introduce a Lyapunov function L(t) based
on the Lyapunov optimization theory:
1
L(t) = Q(t)2
2
Then, the Lyapunov drift ∆(t) is defined as:
∆(t) = E [L(t + 1) − L(t) | Q(t)]

+ ω2 · (γ · Nmc (t) + ρ · Nsc (t))

(31)

(32)

(37)

Here, Nm (t), Ns (t), Nmc (t), and Nsc (t) denote the number
of microservices, servers, changed microservice instances, and
changed servers at time slot t, respectively. These variables are
bounded above by their respective maximum values, namely
max
max
max
. Accordingly, Eq. (36) can
, and Nsc
Nm
, Nsmax , Nmc
be further relaxed as follows:
h


i
∆(t) ≤ δ + E Q(t) c(t) − C̃ | Q(t)
(38)
where
δ=

1
max
ω1 · (α · Nm
+ β · Nsmax )
2

(29)

When the virtual queue Q(t) achieves mean rate stability,
Eq. (25) holds, which leads to the constraint given in Eq. (22):
lim

c(t) = ω1 · (α · Nm (t) + β · Ns (t))

!2
max
max
+ ω2 · (γ · Nmc
+ ρ · Nsc
) − C̃

is a constant.
To maintain the stability of the virtual queue while minimizing the average response time, the optimization objective
is decomposed into each time slot t. A control parameter
V is introduced to balance the trade-off between these two
components. The resulting drift-plus-penalty function for each
time slot is defined as:
∆(t) + V · E[TG (t) | Q(t)]

(39)

As indicated in Eq. (32), the Lyapunov drift term ∆(t) in Eq.
(39) depends on the future queue backlog Q(t+1), suggesting
that solving the drift-plus-penalty function at time t would
require foresight of future system states. To overcome this
limitation, we relax Eq. (39) by minimizing its upper bound.
Applying Lemma 2, we obtain:

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

7

Algorithm 1 MFFD
∆(t) + V · E[TG (t) | Q(t)] ≤ β + E[Q(t)(c(t) − C̃) | Q(t)]
+ V · E[TG (t) | Q(t)]
(40)
Following Lyapunov optimization, the original problem is
transformed into minimizing the upper bound in Eq. (40). This
leads to the following equivalent optimization formulation:

min β − E[Q(t) · C̃ | Q(t)]

(41)
+ E[Q(t)c(t) + V · TG (t) | Q(t)]
In this expression, the first term β is a constant. The second
term is also constant since Q(t) is observed and remains fixed
within the current time slot. The third term depends on the
total cost c(t) and the average response latency TG (t), both
of which are determined by the scheduling policy D(t).
Based on the above derivation, the original long term
optimization problem P1 can be reformulated as a per-slot
decision making problem, denoted as problem P2, using the
drift-plus-penalty approach. problem P2 is formulated as:
min E [Q(t)c(t) + V · TG (t) | Q(t)]
D(t)

(42)

subject to: Constraints given in Eqs. (1) and (2).
Here, D(t) represents the optimal elastic resource scheduling policy for the time slot t. To simplify computation, the
minimization of the conditional expectation in problem P2
can be equivalently transformed into the minimization of the
unconditional expectation, as discussed in [24]. The resulting
simplified form of the problem P2 is expressed as:
min [Q(t)c(t) + V · TG (t)]
D(t)

(43)

subject to: Constraints given in Eqs. (1) and (2).
B. MFFD for Initial Solution Construction
At the beginning of the system, microservice instances need
to be deployed for the first time. This paper assumes that
the initial request flow is known in advance. In this paper,
MFFD is designed based on the FFD algorithm to perform the
initial deployment of microservice instances. The pseudocode
is shown in Algorithm 1. The specific steps are as follows:
Step 1: Sort the microservices based on their resource
requirements. Specifically, microservices are arranged in descending order of their CPU and memory demands. This
prioritization ensures that resource-intensive microservices are
deployed first, which improves resource utilization and better
aligns with the residual capacity of the nodes.
Step 2: Compute the total request arrival rate for each
microservice type across all request flows. To guarantee system stability, the service intensity ρ < 1 must be satisfied.
Accordingly, the required number of instances is calculated
using the following equation:


λ
(44)
numm = (1 + ϵ) ·
µ

1: Input: M ; S; CRs ; M Rs ; CRm ; M Rm ; λ; ϵ
2: Output: Initial microservice deployment scheme s0
3: Sort microservices in M by CRm and M Rm in descending

order
4: for each microservice m ∈ M do
5:
Compute required instances: numm
6:
for each server s ∈ S do
7:
Determine available capacity cs on node s:
Rm
m
8:
cs = min{⌊ CR
⌋, ⌊ M
⌋}
CRs
M Rs
9:
Deploy min(cs , numm ) instances of m on node s
10:
Update server CRs and M Rs
11:
if CRs < CRm or M Rs < M Rm then
12:
break
13:
end if
14:
end for
15: end for
16: Return Deployment scheme s0

where ⌈·⌉ denotes the ceiling function, and ϵ represents the
excess margin, set to 0.1 in this experiment. The resulting
number of instances is then scheduled for deployment across
the available nodes.
Step 3: Traverse the nodes sequentially and determine
the maximum number of microservice instances that can be
accommodated on each node based on the remaining CPU
and memory resources. If a node has sufficient resources,
deploy as many instances as possible and update the node’s
resource status accordingly. If the current node cannot host all
remaining instances, deploy as many as feasible on that node
and proceed to allocate the rest to subsequent nodes. This
process continues until all instances are deployed or available
resources are exhausted.
C. MDRL for Microservice Auto-scaling
This paper uses the DRL method based on proximal policy
optimization (PPO) [44] architecture, and combines the results
of Lyapunov optimization to design the MDRL algorithm. The
overall structure of the algorithm is illustrated in Fig. 3, and
the corresponding pseudocode is provided in Algorithm 2.
The core of the algorithm adopts an actor-critic architecture,
primarily consisting of a deep neural network (DNN), a actor
network, and a critic network. The algorithm predicts the
request arrival rate for the next time slot. The action to
be executed in the next time slot is determined during the
current time slot, and is then applied once the next time slot
begins. The design of the state space, action space, and reward
function in this algorithm is described as follows:
State: The agent needs to learn the state of the data center
environment. A well-designed state space enables the agent
to learn the environment more comprehensively. In this study,
the state space is defined as:
State = {rM R , rCR , Cm , Rhis }

(45)

where rM R denotes the remaining memory of each server,
and rCR represents the remaining CPU capacity. The variable
Cm indicates the currently deployed microservices and their
quantities on each server. The historical record of request

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

8

Fig. 3. MDRL algorithm structure diagram.

arrival rates, denoted as Rhis , is used to predict the arrival
rate for the upcoming time slot.
Action: The agent adjusts the deployment of microservices
through actions to adapt to the dynamic variations in microservice request patterns and achieve the optimization objective.
The action space is defined as:
Action = {si , mj , Nchange }

(46)

where si is the selected server, mj is the selected microservice
type, and Nchange represents the change in the number of
instances of mj , ranging from -3 to 3. Thus, an action
indicates either an increase or a decrease in the number of mj
instances on server si by Nchange , as illustrated in Fig. 4. If
a server hosts no microservice instances, it will be shut down.
Additionally, the intelligent agent is restricted from executing
the following invalid actions:
• If the agent attempts to increase the number of a specific
microservice type on a server, but the required memory
or CPU exceeds the server’s resource limits, the action is
canceled. Instead, the agent is allowed to deploy only as
many instances as permitted within the server’s resource
constraints.
• If the agent attempts to reduce the number of a specific
microservice type on a server by more than the number
of existing instances, the action is canceled. The agent
should instead remove all existing instances of that microservice on the server.
Reward: The design of the reinforcement learning reward
function plays a critical role in determining the performance
of the learning process and directly impacts the convergence
behavior of the model. Based on our investigation, we find
that in a complex and continuous decision space such as
microservice resource scheduling, designing effective rewards
and penalties is particularly challenging. An overly complex
penalty structure may hinder the agent’s exploration, leading it
to converge prematurely to a suboptimal solution. Therefore, in
this study, we adopt a deliberately simple reward design, while
applying the aforementioned avoidance strategies to filter out
invalid actions. This approach allows the agent to focus more

Algorithm 2 MDRL
1: Input: Initial environment s0 ; Learning rate η; Discount factor

γ; GAE parameter λ̂; Clipping coefficient ϵ; Coefficients of loss
φ1 , φ2 , φ3 ; Number of iterations K; Training epochs E; Update
epochs N
2: Initialize Actor-Critic network
3: Initialize optimizer with learning rate η
4: for iteration = 1 → K + 1 do
5:
Reset environments and get initial observation s0
6:
for step = 0 → E − 1 do
7:
Select action at ∼ πθ (at |st ) using Actor network
8:
Get value function V (st ) using Critic network
9:
Execute at , get reward rt :
10:
Update observation to st+1
11:
Compute TD error δt
12:
Compute advantage function At via GAE(γ, λ̂)
13:
Compute returns Gt
14:
for epoch = 1 → N do
15:
for each minibatch do
16:
Compute policy loss Lpolicy , value loss Lvalue , and
entropy loss Lentropy
17:
Compute total loss:
L = φ1 Lpolicy + φ2 Lentropy + φ3 Lvalue
18:
Update θ via gradient ascent with ∇θ L
19:
end for
20:
end for
21:
end for
22:
Update learning rate if using scheduler
23:
Log training metrics and save model checkpoints
24: end for

effectively on the optimization objective and better explore
potential optimal solutions. Based on the results of Lyapunov
optimization, the reward function is defined as follows:
Reward = − [Q(t)c(t) + V · TG (t)]

(47)

Training Process: During the training process, both the
environment and the neural networks are first initialized.
The training then proceeds through four key steps: action

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

9

Fig. 4. Illustration of the instance scaling.

execution, advantage estimation and reward calculation, loss
computation, and parameter update. The detailed procedure is
as follows:
Step 1: The agent observes the current state st from the
environment, uses the actor network to generate a probability
distribution π(at |st ), and samples an action at accordingly.
Moreover, the critic network estimates the value function
V (st ). After executing the action, the agent transitions to a
new state st+1 and receives a reward rt , which is computed
as shown in Eq. (47).
Step 2: At the end of each training epoch, the generalized
advantage estimation (GAE) method is employed to compute
the advantage function at each time step. The advantage
function measures the relative benefit of the chosen action
compared to the baseline and is recursively computed as:
At = δt + γ λ̂At+1

(48)

where γ is the discount factor, and λ̂ is the GAE decay
parameter. The temporal-difference (TD) error δt is calculated
as:
δt = rt + γV (st+1 ) − V (st )

(49)

Based on this, the return Gt is computed as:
Gt = At + V (st )

(50)

Step 3: To balance policy exploration and stability, the total
loss function consists of three components: policy loss, value
loss, and entropy loss. The policy loss guides the optimization
of the actor network and is defined as:
Lpolicy = Et [min (rt (θ)At , clip(rt (θ), 1 − ϵ, 1 + ϵ)At )] (51)
t)
Here, rt (θ) = ππθθ (a(at |s
is the importance sampling ratio,
t |st )
old
which quantifies the difference between the current policy and
the previous one. The clip function prevents overly large policy
updates, thereby improving training stability.
The entropy loss encourages exploration and avoids premature convergence to suboptimal policies. It is computed as:

Lentropy = −Et [πθ (at |st ) log πθ (at |st )]

(52)

The value loss updates the critic network by minimizing the
Mean Squared Error (MSE) between the predicted value and
the actual return:
i
1 h
2
Lvalue = Et (V (st ) − Gt )
(53)
2
The overall loss function is then expressed as a weighted
sum of the three individual loss terms:
L = φ1 Lpolicy + φ2 Lentropy + φ3 Lvalue

(54)

where φ1 , φ2 , and φ3 are the coefficients corresponding to
the policy, entropy, and value loss components, respectively.
Step 4: The final loss function is used for backpropagation
to update the network parameters accordingly.
V. E XPERIMENTS
A. Experimental Setup
User Request Configuration: The experiment is based
on the Social Network microservice application from the
DeathStar dataset [45]. This application is decomposed, and
a subset of its microservice chains is extracted for use. The
experimental setup includes ten server nodes and ten types of
user request flows. Two types of load fluctuation patterns are
considered. The overall request arrival rate varies according to
the selected load curve, with different random perturbations
applied to each individual request stream. The aggregate
system load variation is illustrated in Fig. 5, and the specific
settings are as follows:
1) Sinusoidal Load Variation Model (Sin): A sine function is used to simulate the variation in system load,
with one full sine cycle corresponding to a single day.
The specific calculation is given by:


2πt
λi (t) = a + b sin
+ ni
(55)
T1
where λi (t) represents the variation in request arrival
rate over time, a is set to 15, b is set to 10, and T1 is
set to 288. The term ni is a random disturbance within
the range [−5, 5].
2) Real Twitter App Data (Twitter): It is found that the
system load change rule of every day is basically the

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

0

Reward

Twitter
Sin

Lambda

30
27
24
21
18
15
12
9
6

10

50

100

150
Timeslot

200

250

300

Fig. 5. Request load dynamic change curve.

same. Therefore, the load change data of the Twitter
application system on November 1, 2022, is used as
experimental data, and the load change law is retained
through certain mathematical transformations to keep the
obtained system load within the affordable range of this
experimental microservice system.
Comparison Algorithm: To qualitatively and effectively
evaluate the performance of our algorithm, this study compares
it against the following benchmark algorithms:
• PPA [46]: PPA performs microservice auto-scaling in
edge environments based on Kubernetes. It considers not
only CPU utilization but also additional metrics such as
job queue length, I/O activity, and request arrival rates.
• ProScale [43]: Proscale leverages simple moving Average (SMA) to predict the future load of each microservice
in real time, and dynamically adjusts the number of instances of each microservice and its deployment location
through a greedy algorithm.
• RL agent [47]: This method employs reinforcement
learning to design a proactive cloud resource auto-scaler,
which predicts the usage of the entire distributed microservice application and performs timely scaling adjustments. The design of the reward function focuses on
the request success rate.
Evaluation index:
• Average request latency: The average end-to-end latency of all application request flows in the current time
slot is calculated as Eq. (18).
• Cost: The total cost of deploying and running a microservice instance is given in Eq. (21).
• Request success rate: We set the maximum request
latency to 60 ms, and if the request flow takes longer
than the maximum request latency, the request will be
considered a failure.
B. Experimental Results
In this section, we conduct a comprehensive experimental
evaluation of our algorithm. As illustrated in Fig. 6, the
proposed algorithm exhibits consistent and stable convergence
once training progresses beyond 1,000 iterations. This empirical observation effectively validates the soundness and
effectiveness of our reward function design.
To facilitate a visual comparison, we begin by observing
the average performance of each algorithm over a full day, as
a single day captures a complete cycle of request arrival rate
fluctuations. The experiments evaluate the algorithms in terms
of average request latency, average energy consumption, and

0.8 ×10
1.2
1.6
2.0
2.4
2.8
3.2
3.6
4.0

1

Twitter
Sin

0

250

500

750

1000 1250
Epoch

1500

1750

2000

Fig. 6. Training convergence curve.

1.0

1.0

0.8

0.8

0.6
0.4
0.2

0.6
RL Agent
Proscale
PPA
Ours

0.0 Latency

Cost Success Rate

(a)

0.4
0.2

RL Agent
Proscale
PPA
Ours

0.0 Latency

Cost Success Rate

(b)

Fig. 7. Request latency, cost and request success rate averaged over the
course of a day for two load variation curves. (a) Sin variation curve. (b)
Twitter variation curve.

average request success rate throughout the day. Fig. 7 presents
the average performance of the proposed algorithm across the
three metrics: request latency, cost, and request success rate.
To ensure consistency in scale, all metric values are normalized
to the range [0, 1]. Specifically, 0 is mapped to 0, the maximum
value in each metric is mapped to 1, and all other values are
linearly scaled accordingly.
As shown in Fig. 7(a), under the Sin load variation curve,
our algorithm improves the three metrics by 9.86%, 8.02%,
and 6.85%, respectively, compared to the currently best performing ProScale algorithm. Similarly, Fig. 7(b) shows that
under the Twitter load variation curve, our algorithm achieves
improvements of 21.72%, 4.47%, and 17.85% across the
same three metrics. PPA, as a widely used threshold-based
autoscaling algorithm in Kubernetes, also achieves reasonable
performance in terms of request latency and success rate.
However, it lacks effective control over system operational
cost and does not account for communication latency caused
by routing, leading to higher resource waste. In contrast, our
algorithm effectively balances system operational cost and user
request latency. Moreover, it prevents network congestion and
ensures the overall quality of service for end users.
To evaluate the experimental results in greater detail, we examine the time slot variation curves of request latency and cost
over a one-day period under different load variation patterns.
Fig. 8 illustrates the time-slot variation in request latency under
the two load variation curves. When the request arrival rate is
low, the average request latency of the service graph remains
low under the proposed algorithm. As the arrival rate increases,
the agent is able to effectively select appropriate microservice
instances for scaling, thereby maintaining the stability of
request latencies and ensuring the quality of service for users.
Fig. 9 depicts the time slot variation in cost under the two
load variation curves. Due to the stabilizing effect of Lyapunov
optimization on the virtual queue, the cost fluctuates around

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

RL Agent
Proscale
PPA
Ours

Latency

200
180
160
140
120
100
80

11

0

50

100

150
Timeslot

200

250

300

(a)
RL Agent
Proscale
PPA
Ours

Latency

250
225
200
175
150
125
100
75

0

50

100

150
Timeslot

200

250

300

(b)
Fig. 8. Time slot variation of request latency under two load variation curves.
(a) Sin variation curve. (b) Twitter variation curve.

0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Timeslot

50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15

RL Agent
Proscale
PPA
Ours

Cost

RL Agent
Proscale
PPA
Ours

Cost

47.5
45.0
42.5
40.0
37.5
35.0
32.5
30.0
27.5

0

(a)

50 100 150 200 250 300
Timeslot

(b)

Fig. 9. Time slot variation of request latency under two load variation curves.
(a) Sin variation curve. (b) Twitter variation curve.

V=10
V=100
V=1000

50
45
40
35
30
25
20

V=10
V=100
V=1000

Cost

Latency

250
225
200
175
150
125
100
75

0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Timeslot

(a)

0

50 100 150 200 250 300
Timeslot

(b)

Fig. 10. Impact of V-parameters on request latency and cost. (a) Impact of
V-parameters on request latency. (b) Impact of V-parameters on cost.

the average budget C̃, thereby avoiding large deviations. This
mechanism allows the system to minimize request latency
while maintaining cost control. In this experiment, C̃ is set to
35. Since C̃ is an adjustable parameter, it can be dynamically
tuned based on cost requirements, thus demonstrating the high
adaptability of our algorithm.
The V parameter in Lyapunov optimization plays a crucial
role in balancing system cost and user request latency. To
analyze the sensitivity of performance to changes in V , we
conduct experiments under the Twitter load variation curve.
As shown in Fig. 10, increasing the V value causes request
latency to weigh more heavily in the reward function. Consequently, user request latency decreases, but the associated cost
increases. Notably, when V = 1000, the cost begins to drop

rapidly near the end of the time slot. This phenomenon occurs
because the Lyapunov virtual queue Q(t), which accumulates
based on the cost function c(t), grows large enough that
its product with c(t) becomes comparable in magnitude to
the latency component. Therefore, when V is excessively
large, the cost experiences significant time-slot fluctuations,
potentially leading to system instability.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we address the problem of dynamically
changing user requests in edge server clusters and first model
the problem using queuing theory. We proposed a three
steps AutoLFD algorithm to solve the problem. Extensive
simulation experiments demonstrate that our methods significantly improves user request latency, system operation cost,
and other performance metrics compared to current state-ofthe-art methods. The proposed approach ensures maximum
improvement in user service quality while keeping system
operation costs below the predefined budget. This work provides a valuable reference for solving microservice scheduling
problems in both edge and cloud computing environments.
With the rapid advancement of reinforcement learning, its
suitability for dynamically changing environments makes it
particularly well suited for scenarios involving fluctuating user
requests. This paper represents an initial attempt to apply
reinforcement learning to microservice auto-scaling. Future
research can further explore more effective designs of the
reward function and action space. Additionally, while this
study adopts a single-agent framework, employing a multiagent approach in future work may introduce higher resource
consumption but holds promise for achieving better overall
performance.
R EFERENCES
[1] S. Jhingran, N. Bansal, R. Chaturvedi, A. Singh, and Y. Arora, “Decentralized generative ai model deployment using microservices,” in
2024 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Quantum
Computation-Based Sensor Application (ICAIQSA). IEEE, 2024, pp.
1–5.
[2] K. Peng, Y. Hu, H. Ding, H. Chen, L. Wang, C. Cai, and M. Hu, “Largescale service mesh orchestration with probabilistic routing in cloud data
centers,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, 2025.
[3] Q. Luo, S. Hu, C. Li, G. Li, and W. Shi, “Resource scheduling in
edge computing: A survey,” IEEE communications surveys & tutorials,
vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 2131–2165, 2021.
[4] X. Kong, Y. Wu, H. Wang, and F. Xia, “Edge computing for internet of
everything: A survey,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 9, no. 23,
pp. 23 472–23 485, 2022.
[5] P. Hou, H. Jia, H. Zhu, Z. Lu, S.-C. Huang, Y. Yang, and H. Chai,
“Efficient edge server activation and service association for green
computing in mec-enabled internet of vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on
Intelligent Vehicles, 2024.
[6] F. Gou and J. Wu, “Optimization of edge server group collaboration
architecture strategy in iot smart cities application,” Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications, vol. 17, no. 5, pp. 3110–3132, 2024.
[7] V. Velepucha and P. Flores, “A survey on microservices architecture:
Principles, patterns and migration challenges,” IEEE access, vol. 11,
pp. 88 339–88 358, 2023.
[8] L. De Lauretis, “From monolithic architecture to microservices architecture,” in 2019 IEEE International Symposium on Software Reliability
Engineering Workshops (ISSREW). IEEE, 2019, pp. 93–96.
[9] Y. Abgaz, A. McCarren, P. Elger, D. Solan, N. Lapuz, M. Bivol,
G. Jackson, M. Yilmaz, J. Buckley, and P. Clarke, “Decomposition
of monolith applications into microservices architectures: A systematic
review,” IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 49, no. 8, pp.
4213–4242, 2023.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

[10] M. Söylemez, B. Tekinerdogan, and A. Kolukısa Tarhan, “Challenges
and solution directions of microservice architectures: A systematic
literature review,” Applied sciences, vol. 12, no. 11, p. 5507, 2022.
[11] M. D. Hossain, T. Sultana, S. Akhter, M. I. Hossain, N. T. Thu, L. N.
Huynh, G.-W. Lee, and E.-N. Huh, “The role of microservice approach
in edge computing: Opportunities, challenges, and research directions,”
ICT Express, vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 1162–1182, 2023.
[12] W. Lv, Q. Wang, P. Yang, Y. Ding, B. Yi, Z. Wang, and C. Lin,
“Microservice deployment in edge computing based on deep q learning,”
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 33, no. 11,
pp. 2968–2978, 2022.
[13] J. Lu, W. Li, J. Guo, X. Ding, Z. Tang, and T. Wang, “Container scheduling with dynamic computing resource for microservice deployment in
edge computing,” in 2024 20th International Conference on Mobility,
Sensing and Networking (MSN). IEEE Computer Society, 2024, pp.
236–243.
[14] T. Pusztai, S. Nastic, A. Morichetta, V. C. Pujol, P. Raith, S. Dustdar,
D. Vij, Y. Xiong, and Z. Zhang, “Polaris scheduler: Slo-and topologyaware microservices scheduling at the edge,” in 2022 IEEE/ACM 15th
International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing (UCC).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 61–70.
[15] X. He, Z. Tu, M. Wagner, X. Xu, and Z. Wang, “Online deployment
algorithms for microservice systems with complex dependencies,” IEEE
Transactions on Cloud Computing, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 1746–1763, 2022.
[16] Y. Wang, C. Zhao, S. Yang, X. Ren, L. Wang, P. Zhao, and X. Yang,
“Mpcsm: Microservice placement for edge-cloud collaborative smart
manufacturing,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 17,
no. 9, pp. 5898–5908, 2020.
[17] C. Meng, S. Song, H. Tong, M. Pan, and Y. Yu, “Deepscaler: Holistic
autoscaling for microservices based on spatiotemporal gnn with adaptive
graph learning,” in 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on
Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 2023, pp. 53–65.
[18] L. Wang, X. Liu, H. Ding, Y. Hu, K. Peng, and M. Hu, “Energydelay-aware joint microservice deployment and request routing with
dvfs in edge: A reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Transactions
on Computers, 2025.
[19] K. Peng, J. He, J. Guo, Y. Liu, J. He, W. Liu, and M. Hu, “Delayaware optimization of fine-grained microservice deployment and routing
in edge via reinforcement learning,” IEEE Transactions on Network
Science and Engineering, 2024.
[20] R. Zeng and Y. Chen, “A novel automatic horizontal extension technology for multi-instance microservice system,” in 2024 International
Conference on Networking and Network Applications (NaNA). IEEE,
2024, pp. 282–286.
[21] K. Cheng, S. Zhang, M. Liu, Y. Gu, L. Wei, H. Cheng, K. Liu, Y. Song,
X. Shi, A. Zhu et al., “Geoscale: microservice autoscaling with cost
budget in geo-distributed edge clouds,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel
and Distributed Systems, vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 646–662, 2024.
[22] H. Ahmad, C. Treude, M. Wagner, and C. Szabo, “Smart hpa: A
resource-efficient horizontal pod auto-scaler for microservice architectures,” in 2024 IEEE 21st International Conference on Software
Architecture (ICSA). IEEE, 2024, pp. 46–57.
[23] G. R. Bitran and R. Morabito, “State-of-the-art survey: Open queueing
networks: Optimization and performance evaluation models for discrete manufacturing systems,” Production and Operations Management,
vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 163–193, 1996.
[24] M. Neely, Stochastic network optimization with application to communication and queueing systems. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2010.
[25] D. S. Johnson, “Near-optimal bin packing algorithms,” Ph.D. dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1973.
[26] D. Wang, H. Shen, and H. Tian, “Resource configuration for crossserver deployment of application-oriented microservices in cloud-edge
continuum with slo constraints,” in 2023 IEEE 29th International
Conference on Parallel and Distributed Systems (ICPADS). IEEE, 2023,
pp. 2655–2662.
[27] L. Yang, J. Jia, H. Lin, and J. Cao, “Reliable dynamic service chain
scheduling in 5g networks,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing,
vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 4898–4911, 2022.
[28] X. Li, J. Zhou, X. Wei, D. Li, Z. Qian, J. Wu, X. Qin, and S. Lu,
“Topology-aware scheduling framework for microservice applications in
cloud,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 34,
no. 5, pp. 1635–1649, 2023.
[29] R. Liu, P. Yang, H. Lv, and W. Li, “Multi-objective multi-factorial
evolutionary algorithm for container placement,” IEEE Transactions on
Cloud Computing, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 1430–1445, 2021.
[30] W. Lv, P. Yang, T. Zheng, C. Lin, Z. Wang, M. Deng, and Q. Wang,
“Graph-reinforcement-learning-based dependency-aware microservice

12

deployment in edge computing,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal,
vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1604–1615, 2023.
[31] R. Bhattacharya and T. Wood, “Bloc: Balancing load with overload
control in the microservices architecture,” in 2022 IEEE International
Conference on Autonomic Computing and Self-Organizing Systems (ACSOS). IEEE, 2022, pp. 91–100.
[32] D. Bachar, A. Bremler-Barr, and D. Hay, “Optimizing service selection
and load balancing in multi-cluster microservice systems with mcoss,”
in 2023 IFIP Networking Conference (IFIP Networking). IEEE, 2023,
pp. 1–9.
[33] S. Wang, Y. Guo, X. Liu, and A. Zhou, “Service routing in multi-tier
edge computing: A matching game approach,” IEEE Journal on Selected
Areas in Communications, vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 835–844, 2022.
[34] H. Zhao, S. Deng, Z. Liu, J. Yin, and S. Dustdar, “Distributed redundant placement for microservice-based applications at the edge,” IEEE
Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 1732–1745,
2020.
[35] Y. Ren, S. Shen, Y. Ju, X. Wang, W. Wang, and V. C. Leung,
“Edgematrix: A resources redefined edge-cloud system for prioritized
services,” in IEEE INFOCOM 2022-IEEE Conference on Computer
Communications. IEEE, 2022, pp. 610–619.
[36] Y. Mao, X. Shang, and Y. Yang, “Provably efficient algorithms for trafficsensitive sfc placement and flow routing,” in IEEE INFOCOM 2022IEEE Conference on Computer Communications. IEEE, 2022, pp. 950–
959.
[37] Y. Hu, H. Wang, L. Wang, M. Hu, K. Peng, and B. Veeravalli,
“Joint deployment and request routing for microservice call graphs in
data centers,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems,
vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 2994–3011, 2023.
[38] K. Peng, L. Wang, J. He, C. Cai, and M. Hu, “Joint optimization of
service deployment and request routing for microservices in mobile edge
computing,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 17, no. 3,
pp. 1016–1028, 2024.
[39] J. Zeng, D. Ding, K. Kang, H. Xie, and Q. Yin, “Adaptive drl-based
virtual machine consolidation in energy-efficient cloud data center,”
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 33, no. 11,
pp. 2991–3002, 2022.
[40] Y. Liu, B. Yang, X. Ren, Q. Liu, S. Liu, and X. Guan, “E 2 ms:
An efficient and economical microservice migration strategy for smart
manufacturing,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, 2024.
[41] S. Kardani-Moghaddam, R. Buyya, and K. Ramamohanarao, “Adrl:
A hybrid anomaly-aware deep reinforcement learning-based resource
scaling in clouds,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 514–526, 2020.
[42] F. Rossi, V. Cardellini, F. L. Presti, and M. Nardelli, “Dynamic multimetric thresholds for scaling applications using reinforcement learning,”
IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 1807–1821,
2022.
[43] K. Cheng, S. Zhang, C. Tu, X. Shi, Z. Yin, S. Lu, Y. Liang, and
Q. Gu, “Proscale: Proactive autoscaling for microservice with timevarying workload at the edge,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and
Distributed Systems, vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 1294–1312, 2023.
[44] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov, “Proximal policy optimization algorithms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347,
2017.
[45] Y. Gan, Y. Zhang, D. Cheng, A. Shetty, P. Rathi, N. Katarki, A. Bruno,
J. Hu, B. Ritchken, B. Jackson et al., “An open-source benchmark suite
for microservices and their hardware-software implications for cloud
& edge systems,” in Proceedings of the Twenty-Fourth International
Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and
Operating Systems, 2019, pp. 3–18.
[46] L. Ju, P. Singh, and S. Toor, “Proactive autoscaling for edge computing
systems with kubernetes,” in Proceedings of the 14th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing Companion, 2021,
pp. 1–8.
[47] A. Heimerson, J. Eker, and K.-E. Årzén, “A proactive cloud application
auto-scaler using reinforcement learning,” in 2022 IEEE/ACM 15th International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing (UCC). IEEE,
2022, pp. 213–220.

